Add runbook for PrometheusRemoteWrite alert (#229)
appuio/openshift4-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/monitoring/runbooks/prometheus_remotewrite.adoc

= Alert Group: Syn-Prometheus

== Alert Rule: SYN_PrometheusRemoteWriteBehind [[SYN_PrometheusRemoteWriteBehind]]
== Alert Rule: SYN_PrometheusRemoteWriteDesiredShards [[SYN_PrometheusRemoteWriteDesiredShards]]

=== icon:glasses[] Overview

This alert may indicate that the remote write receiver isn't accepting metrics due to an internal problem or that there's a network issue between Prometheus and the remote write receiver.
If the remote write receiver is a Mimir instance, the root cause may be that the ngnix in front of the Mimir components has stale pod IPs in its DNS cache.

> === icon:[search] Investigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== icon:search[] Investigate
```

* Check that the remote write receiver's endpoint is reachable
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n openshift-monitoring --as=cluster-admin exec -it prometheus-k8s-0 -- curl <remote-write-endpoint>
----
* Check the remote write receiver for any issues.

> If the remote write receiver is a Mimir instance, check the Mimir nginx pod logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the remote write receiver which has trouble is the VSHN central metrics Mimir instance, check the Mimir nginx pod logs on APPUiO Cloud cloudscale.ch LPG 2.
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n vshn-appuio-mimir logs deploy/vshn-appuio-mimir-nginx --tail=200
----
+
```
